in this lesson we're going to explore
the benefits and usage of subscriptions
i've talked about subscriptions a number
of times now so let's actually look at
exactly what they are
i can really think of a subscription
as that base
unit of an agreement between a customer
and microsoft now i can have multiple
subscriptions
but let's say this is subscription one
and the idea is for that particular
subscription there's a certain agreement
and it's going to follow a certain
billing model
it could be pay-as-you-go
it might be part of an enterprise
agreement there's many different options
but it's going to be part of some
agreement on
how i'm going to actually pay for the
services is a billing boundary
it's also a boundary by default of trust
of my security
now the accounts we leverage for azure
well they have to live somewhere
and what actually happens is we have
azure active directory
so my company has a particular azure ad
tenant
now in this tenant there are users
there are groups
there are devices
often will synchronize the content from
our on-premises active directory but
that's not absolutely required
every subscription
trusts
one
and only one azure ad tenant
so it's a particular tenant
this is where when i create those roles
i give a certain user or group
permissions
it's the users and groups in that
particular azure ad tenant so the azure
id tenant does not live in a
subscription it's completely separate
and i tell a subscription hey you're
gonna trust
this particular directory
if i was to go and look at my
subscriptions here
i'll pick my development subscription
we can see straight away we have this
idea of directory
so that is the azure ad tenant that it
is trusting
for all of the various users and groups
that will be able to grant permissions
to resources contained in this
you do see there is an option to change
directory so if i create my subscription
but now i want to use a different azure
ad tenant and give those users and
groups permissions i can if i have the
right permissions
move it to a different directory
now
just like a resource group
at a subscription level
i can grant roles i can grant a role
assignment
all of these different roles are
available and any role assignment i give
would be inherited by anything
within the subscription inherited by the
resource groups inherited by the
resources i can also
apply
budgets
so if we look here i can see hey there's
budgets that i can apply
and i can also
apply policy if i can remember exactly
where it is on this picture
but policy would be there as well there
we go policies i knew i'd get there
eventually
so all of those same things i could do
at the resource group
i can actually
do it the subscription as well
so i can think about okay for this
subscription
once again i can apply budget
i can apply role-based access control
and i can apply policy
and remember within that particular
subscription we have one or more
resource groups
that could have their own budgets are
back in policy
but these would get inherited so
everything i'm applying here
gets inherited
into the resource group into the actual
resources
that we actually create whatever they
may be
so i have that idea that hey i can
create the subscription i could set
those things at the subscription level
and then i can have one or more resource
groups
within there
with their various resources
now a subscription
has certain limits so i set a certain
billing but there are also limits
some of these are soft limits that i can
put in a request to raise it some of
them are hard limits there's a document
that walks through all of these
so if we jump over i can see the azure
subscription and limits and i'm not
going to go through these because you'll
quickly see
there are really a lot of them but i can
see certain things at the subscription
level hey i can have 980 resource groups
per subscription
i can have 50 tags so i can put tags on
a subscription
how many unique tag calculations per
subscription deployments per location
per subscription
and there's all these different things
and there's resource group limits
template limits then each individual
type of resource
has various limits as well says a
massive number of different limits i
might come to
and that can actually play into the
architecture of
how many subscriptions do i actually
need
if i'm a small company with just a
couple of applications
i might just have one subscription
i could use resource groups to do
separate web-based access control and
different policies
but very commonly i'll probably at
minimum
maybe i want to separate out
subscriptions
maybe it's the idea that maybe this is
my prod subscription
and then maybe i have
a test subscription
that idea of different permissions would
definitely apply i might give people
more permissions in dev test than i
would in production
policy
i might have far more stringent
requirements for production
likewise i may restrict development to
only being able to use maybe cheaper
types of resource
i might have a much bigger budget on
production i do development so i have
different subscriptions for different
environments so i may have them
for that reason
so i want to split it by environments
it may be for billing purposes so that
idea of the billing well that might be a
purpose i want to separate out for
billing purposes so i can easily see
what am i spending in these different
purposes
i'll separate them into different
subscriptions now i can use tagging for
billing as well that's actually a very
powerful thing when i get my billing
i can use the tag to work out what was
this actually used for
those limits
may actually come into play
i need different subscriptions because
i'm doing
such a big amount of resource i'm
actually i'm running out i've hit a
certain limit so i need to go and create
a new subscription
if i'm using a different azure id tenant
certainly that would because a
subscription can only trust one azure id
tenant i might need to go a different
subscription for that purposes
and remember
that resource groups live within that
subscription
some things i can actually move between
subscriptions there are actual specific
tools
for resource move
but there are limitations to that so
ideally we want to try and get things at
least in the right subscription when we
do deployments but think of that
subscription as a billing boundary it
has certain limits and by default it is
kind of this security isolation as well
unless i do other things to broaden that
out